With Malai Kofta, it is always celebration time! this is one dish which nobody will get bored of even if it is served at every party. The koftas themselves are so tasty that they can easily be served as a snack along with tea. You could microwave or shallow fry the koftas if you want to avoid deep frying them.

Add your private note
Preparation Time: 25 mins
Cooking Time: 16 mins
Makes 4 servings
Show me for   servings  


Ingredients

For The Koftas
1/2 cup crumbled paneer (cottage cheese)
1/2 cup boiled and mashed potatoes
1/4 cup grated carrot
2 tbsp finely chopped capsicum
1 tbsp tomato ketchup
1 tsp chilli powder
a pinch of turmeric powder (haldi)
1 tsp grated ginger (adrak)
1/2 tsp grated garlic (lehsun)
1 tbsp chopped coriander (dhania)
3 tbsp cornflour
salt to taste

For The Gravy
2 cups fresh tomato pulp
1 cup roughly chopped onions
2 tbsp cashewnuts (kaju)
2 tbsp butter
1 tsp garlic (lehsun) paste
1/2 tsp ginger (adrak) paste
1/2 tsp green chilli paste
1 tsp sugar
1 tsp garam masala
1 tsp chilli powder
salt to taste
2 tbsp fresh cream

Other Ingredients
oil for deep-frying

For The Garnish
1 tbsp fresh cream


Method 
For the koftas
Combine all the ingredients in a deep bowl and mix well.
Divide the mixture into 8 equal portions and roll each portion into a cylindrical shape.
Heat the oil in a deep non-stick kadhai and deep-fry, a few koftas at a time, till they turn golden brown in colour from all the sides.
Drain on an absorbent paper and keep aside.

For the gravy
Combine the onions and cashews in a mixer and blend till smooth. Keep aside.
Heat the butter in a deep non-stick pan, add the onion-cashew paste, garlic paste, ginger paste and green chilli paste, and cook on a medium flame for 2 minutes, while stirring occasionally.
Add the fresh tomato pulp, sugar, garam masala, chilli powder, salt and ½ cup of water, mix well and cook on a medium flame for 3 to 4 minutes, while stirring occasionally.
Switch off the flame and add the fresh cream and mix well.

How to proceed
Just before serving, arrange the koftas in a serving dish. Pour the hot gravy over the koftas.
Serve immediately garnished with fresh cream.